# The Network Programmability Dojo

TODO: 

- [ ] @curtissmith Draft "The Network Programmability Dojo"

## What is Network Programmability


Think about your own environment.  How do you manage your networks and systems?  What are the most common methods or 
tools for deploying and managing your production environment?  Text editors; tens, hundreds, maybe 
thousands of documents, drawings, and spreadsheets; CLI commands; copy-and-paste; free or commercial applications?  
In recent years, there has been an incredible increase in the number of devices on your networks; number of 
applications stressing your networks; rate of change in consumer devices and applications; and pressure on network 
architects, engineers, and administrators or operators to support these demands and changes.  We tend to struggle 
with keeping up with demand and making human errors.

So-called DevOps (a compound of "Development" and "Operations") has become a popular practice of unifying development
and operations into a continuous flow of automation and monitoring throughout the stages of development, 
implementation, testing and validation, and deployment and management.  The goal is to decrease the time to cycle 
through each phase, allow for more frequent deployment, improve the quality of each deployment, and keep closely 
aligned with business priorities.  DevOps was first adopted in application and system development and deployment, and
now those teams are turning to the network team looking for integration with the underlying network for performance 
and segmentation.

The "Cloud" isn't just a destination; it is becoming an approach to delivering IT services efficiently and 
effectively.  You should start focusing on delivering solutions rather than individual devices and feature 
configuration.  Products must adapt to facilitate automation and efficient integration rather purely on "nerd knobs".

Perhaps network programmability is as much an ambiguous and overused term as Software Defined Networking.  At one 
time network programmability was synomous with OpenFlow.  Rather than getting wrapped up in semantics, let's agree 
network programmability is about driving real benefits, saving time and cost, and reducing human errors.  Network 
programmability is a set of tools and best practices to deploy, manage, and troubleshoot network devices.

Vendors, including Cisco, recognizes this, and the industry is delivering solutions based on application programming 
interfaces (APIs), software development kits (SDKs), and - this is particularly true of Cisco - resources such as 
[DevNet](http://developer.cisco.com/) to provide sample code, training, and a community to help customers learn, 
adopt, and put into practice new skills to adopt network programmability.